Title: Function Interfaces in Python. Function interfaces in Python can be… | by Marcin Kozak | TDS Archive | Medium

Write

Sign up

Sign in

TDS Archive

An archive of data science, data analytics, data engineering, machine learning, and artificial intelligence writing from the former Towards Data Science Medium publication.

Follow publication

Member-only story

PYTHON PROGRAMMING
Function Interfaces in Python
Function interfaces in Python can be implemented using type hints and protocols.
Marcin Kozak
Follow
18 min read
·
Mar 19, 2024

--

Photo by Rubaitul Azad on Unsplash

While Python doesn’t offer interfaces in the sense commonly known from other programming languages, it does offer similar functionalities. Traditional ones are abstract base classes (ABCs), available via the abc module. Later on, type hints and typing protocols (typing.Protocol) were added.

Abstract base classes (ABCs) and typing protocols serve as Python’s mechanisms for defining expected structures and behaviors of classes, similar to interfaces in other programming languages. Although Python itself doesn’t formally use the term “interface” to describe this functionality, the concept is closely in line of what Python “protocols” offer. In fact, the term “protocol” had been used in Python to describe interfaces well before typing.Protocol was added to the typing module. Therefore, Python’s dynamic nature allows for the creation of dynamic interfaces, while type hints and typing protocols facilitate the specification of interfaces from a static-checking perspective. We will discuss this in this article.

Abstract base classes and typing protocols are typically considered in the context of creating custom classes: you can create an abstract base class or a…

--

Published in TDS Archive
823K followers
·
Last published Feb 3, 2025

An archive of data science, data analytics, data engineering, machine learning, and artificial intelligence writing from the former Towards Data Science Medium publication.

Follow
Written by Marcin Kozak
1.5K followers
·
156 following

A full professor, interdisciplinary researcher, data scientist, statistician, Python, R and Go developer, open-source contributor — and a devoted writer

Follow
No responses yet

Write a response

What are your thoughts?

Cancel
Respond

Help

Status

About

Careers

Press

Blog

Privacy

Rules

Terms

Text to speech